## secular-waves

by Joe Hahn,<br />
jhahn@spacescience.org,<br />
20 April 2019<br />
git branch=master

Updated by by Daniel Sega.<br />
29 Nov 2025,<br />

### bending waves

Descend into folder bending_waves to find the IDL code for simulating the 
spiral bending waves that are described in Hahn, 2007, ApJ, 665, 856;
the code discussed there was developed in 2003 I think.
I myself no longer have IDL running at my fingertips, hopefully this code 
still runs 16 years later on your more modern IDL install, fingers crossed.

To execute the simulation shown in Fig 4-6 of the 2007 paper, enter the 
bending_waves/outgoing_waves folder,
start IDL, and then

    @ring_master.pro

This will run the simulation and show you the output. Type

    @paper_figs.pro

to generate the plots seen in Figs 3-6. I think.

And to execute the simulation seen in Figs 7-8, descend into the pan_in_out folder
and repeat the above. Good luck!


### density waves

Enter the density_waves/outgoing_waves folder for the IDL code that simulates the 
spiral density waves described in Hahn, 2008, ApJ, 680, 1569, and then

    @ring_master.pro
    @paper_figs.pro

to generate the plots seen in Figs 3-6 of that paper. I think.


### kuiper belt

The above code was originally developed to study the waves that a young Neptune
may have launched in a more massive primordial Kuiper Belt, see 
Hahn, 2003, ApJ, 595,531. I haven't yet found that
simulation's initial conditions, but I did recover a nice animation of those
results, see kuiper_belt/Ewaves.mpg for what I think is an animation of that 
simulation, as well as jup1_spi.gif for
 a cute animation of results generated by a precursor code.

-jh
